---
title: (2) Full Subject Based Banding (FSBB) Matters
permalink: /admissions/sec-1-registration/fsbb/
variant: tiptap
description: ""
third_nav_title: Sec 1 Registration
---
<p>PHS embarked on Full Subject-Based Banding (Full SBB) in 2023. From 2024 onwards, all secondary schools are on the Full SBB journey.</p><p>At PHS, our Lower Secondary students are grouped in mixed form classes, comprising students from different posting groups. Mixed form classes present more opportunities for students to interact with other students taking different subject combinations, and with different strengths and interests.</p><p>In their mixed form classes, students will take a set of subjects at a common level, amounting to about one-third of curriculum time. This would allow students in mixed form classes to spend curriculum time together in these subjects.</p><p>These subjects are:</p><p>• Art</p><p>• Character and Citizenship Education</p><p>• Design and Technology</p><p>• Food and Consumer Education</p><p>• Music</p><p>• Physical Education</p><p>Teachers will adopt a range of teaching approaches to meet the different learning needs and pace of their students in the same form class.</p><p>English Language, Mother Tongue Languages, Mathematics, and Science will be taught at G1, G2 or G3 Level, based on the students’ PSLE AL Score for each subject. Students will attend the lessons based on the level they are eligible for.</p><p>Should the student be offered a choice of G1/G2 or G2/G3 for a subject, a letter of offer would be sent via PG. Kindly exercise your option(s) by 27 December 2023 via PG.</p><p>Important notes:</p><p>1. For Posting Group 1 students who are offered the subject(s) at G2 or G3 Level, remember to indicate the level accepted.</p><p>2. Kindly go through the slides with regard to purchase of textbooks and workbooks.</p><p>For more information on Full SBB, visit <a href="http://www.moe.gov.sg/microsites/psle-fsbb" rel="noopener noreferrer nofollow" target="_blank">www.moe.gov.sg/microsites/psle-fsbb</a>.</p><p></p>