---
title: (3) Higher Mother Tongue Language
permalink: /admissions/sec-1-registration/hmtl/
variant: tiptap
description: ""
third_nav_title: Sec 1 Registration
---
<p><strong><u>FAQ regarding Mother Tongue Languages (MTL) &amp; Higher Mother Tongue Languages (HMTL) &nbsp;</u></strong></p><p>1)&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Where is the venue of HMTL lessons? Does my child need to report to any Language Centre?</p><p>·&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Students taking Higher Chinese Language (HCL) will be having their lessons in our school. There is no need to report to any Language Centre.</p><p>·&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Students taking Higher Malay Language (HML) will have their once-a-week lessons after school in Anderson Sec School. &nbsp;&nbsp;</p><p>·&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Students taking Higher Tamil Language (HTL) will have their once-a-week lessons after school in Umar Pulavar Tamil Language Centre (UPTLC). &nbsp;</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>2)&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Does my child need to take both MTL and HMTL? Does my child need to stay back after school for HMTL lessons?</p><p>·&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Students taking HMTL need not take MTL.</p><p>·&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Students taking HCL report to their HCL classes during MTL periods.&nbsp; Secondary 1 HCL students will have extended curriculum of 1 hour on one of the weekdays.</p><p>·&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Students taking HML report to the ML class during MTL periods. &nbsp;Their lessons at the external centres are conducted once a week after school.&nbsp;&nbsp;</p><p>·&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Students taking HTL will do self-directed learning during MTL periods.&nbsp; Their lessons at the external centres are conducted once a week after school.&nbsp;&nbsp;</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>3)&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Does my child need to sit for his/her CL/ ML or TL exam at the end of Sec 4, if he/she is taking HMTL?</p><p>·&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; No.&nbsp; Students who offered HMTL will sit for the GCE O level MTL exam in 2026, at the end of Secondary 3.&nbsp; They will only sit for the HMTL exam at the new Singapore-Cambridge Secondary Education Certificate Exam in 2027 at the end of Secondary 4. &nbsp;</p><p>·&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Students who are unable to cope with HMTL learning at the end of Sec 3, may choose to offer G3 MTL instead of HMTL in Sec 4 and re-sit for the G3 MTL exam in the following year.&nbsp; As students are not allowed to sit for MTL and HMTL exam in the same academic year, these students will NOT be offered HMTL in Secondary 4.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>4)&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; What are the incentives of taking HMTL?</p><p>·&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Currently, student who obtains <u>C6 or above</u> for GCE O-level HMTL <u>and</u> English Language will have 2 points deducted from their L1R5 aggregate score at O-level Exam for admission to Junior Colleges if they meet the eligibility.</p><p>·&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Student who obtains <u>C6 or above</u> for O-level HMTL <u>and</u> English Language can use HMTL as L1 instead of English Language. However, if HMTL language is used as L1, O-level MTL (taken at Sec 3) cannot be used as one of the R5 for aggregate score computation.&nbsp;</p><p>·&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Students need not offer Mother Tongue Language at JC level if he/she has obtained a D7 or better for O-Level HMTL.</p><p>·&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; The above information will be updated under the new Singapore-Cambridge Secondary Education Certificate (SEC) , starting in 2027.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>5)&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; My child is not offered HMTL. Can my child appeal to offer HMTL?</p><p>·&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; MOE has identified a list of students who are eligible to take HMTL (HCL/HML/HTL).&nbsp; The school will admit the Sec 1 students based on this list.&nbsp;</p><p>·&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; At the end of Sec 1 and Sec 2, students who have done well in their MTL and their overall results met the school’s criteria, he/she will be offered HMTL by the school.&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p><strong><u>Non-CL/ML Mother Tongue Languages&nbsp;</u></strong></p><p>1)&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; What will the non-CL/ML students be doing during MTL periods?&nbsp;&nbsp;</p><p>·&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Students who are not taking MTL in school will do self-directed learning during MTL periods in the library.&nbsp;</p><p>·&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; If the students have MTL lessons externally, they will be excused from lessons from 2pm to make their way to the centres. &nbsp;&nbsp;</p><p>·&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; If the last period of the day is a MTL lesson, the students are allowed to leave school after 12 noon.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>2)&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Where are the venues for external MTL lessons?&nbsp; How will it affect my child’s CCA?</p><p>·&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Tamil Language – Guangyang Sec School&nbsp; (designated centre) &nbsp;&nbsp;</p><p>·&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Foreign Language in-lieu of Mother Tongue/ Foreign Language as Third Language – MOE Language Centre (Bishan)</p><p>·&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Chinese Special Programme as Third Language – Changkat Changi Sec School</p><p>·&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Malay Special Programme as Third Language – &nbsp;Zhonghua Sec School</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>External MTL lesson will take precedence over other activities in school, including remedial and CCA. Choose a CCA that would not affect the external lesson.</p><p></p><p>3)&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; What are the things to note for Foreign Language (e.g. French/ German) in-lieu of MTL?</p><p>·&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; There is no need to reapply MTL if approval is granted in primary school.&nbsp;</p><p>·&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Vacancy to take lesson at MOELC is scarce and priority is given to Third language students.&nbsp; If student would like to be placed on the waiting list, obtain the application form from the HOD/MTL and re-submit the application.</p><p>·&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Students are expected to seek tuition externally and provide proof of attendance to the school periodically, even if they do not get a place in the MOELC.</p><p>·&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Students are registered for the yearly exam at MOELC (Bishan) and the result will be reflected in their report book.</p><p>·&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; At the end of Sec 4, students will take the new SEC MTL exam.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>4)&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; What are the things to note for Non-Tamil Indian Languages NTIL (Bengali/ Gujarati/ Hindi/ Punjabi/ Urdu)?&nbsp; <strong>&nbsp;</strong></p><p>·&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; The school does not conduct NTIL class during MTL lessons. &nbsp;&nbsp;</p><p>·&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Parent should enrol their children in a NTIL language centre, e.g. Hindi Society Centre for Hindi lessons.&nbsp; The Board for the Teaching and Testing of South Asian Languages (BTTSAL) oversees NTIL instruction and assessment.&nbsp; The list of NTIL centres can also be found on the official BTTSAL website at <a rel="noopener noreferrer nofollow" target="_blank">bttsal.com</a>.</p><p>·&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Maintain regular attendance at the centres.&nbsp;</p><p>·&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Result from the centres will be reflected in the report book.</p><p>·&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; At the end of Sec 4, students will take the new SEC MTL exam.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>5)&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;How can I apply for MTL ‘B’ syllabus (CLB/ MLB/ TLB) for my child?</p><p>·&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; With the implementation of Full SBB and the provision to offer MTL at G1,G2 or G3, the Secondary MTL ‘B’ syllabus will be discontinued from the 2024 Sec 1 cohort onwards.&nbsp; The school will assess holistically and recommend the Less-Demanding-Level for the student if there is a need.&nbsp;</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>6)&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; How can I apply for Exemption from MTL/ Change of MTL for my child?</p><p>·&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Obtain the application form from HOD/MTL</p><p>·&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Only student entering Singapore system after Primary 1 or students with medical reasons may apply for exemption</p><p>·&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Changing of MTL is not allowed at secondary school level &nbsp;&nbsp;</p>