---
title: (6) Music or Art Elective Programme
permalink: /admissions/sec-1-registration/musicart/
variant: tiptap
description: ""
third_nav_title: Sec 1 Registration
---
<p>Dear Parents/Guardians,</p><p>Students wish to take up the programme at the <strong>Music Elective Programme (MEP) </strong>Centre, can apply for the centre-based MEP at Anglo-Chinese School (Independent) (ACS (I)) or Dunman High School (DHS) as an external student.</p><p>The MEP provides opportunities for musically-inclined students to pursue a deeper and more comprehensive study in the subject and develop an appreciation of the cultural diversity in music. MEP students can expect:</p><ul data-tight="true" class="tight"><li><p>to pursue a deeper and more comprehensive study in the subject and develop an appreciation of the cultural diversity in music.</p></li><li><p>to develop students’ analytical, conceptual and creative thinking through active music learning.</p></li><li><p>analysing, creating and performing music across genres and traditions, including Asian, Jazz, Popular, and Western Classical Music.</p></li><li><p>to participate in combined enrichment events where they will learn and collaborate with peers across MEP schools.</p></li><li><p>participate in programmes designed in partnership with the arts and creative industries</p></li></ul><p>Interested students are encouraged to seek admission into MEP centres that would cater to their abilities and interests as follow;</p><p>The MEP Centres application window:</p><ul data-tight="true" class="tight"><li><p>Open to Secondary 1 applicants from Tues, 2 Jan to Mon 15 Jan 2024.</p></li><li><p>Phase 1A, online application with audition videos.</p></li><li><p>Phase 1B, e-Listening Test on Mon, 29 Jan 2024.</p></li><li><p>Phase 2, interview for shortlisted applicants from Tues, 13 Feb to Fri, 23 Feb 2024</p></li><li><p>Final selection result on Mon, 4 Mar 2024.&nbsp;&nbsp;</p></li><li><p>Successful applicants will start at Anglo-Chinese School (Independent) or Dunman High School (DHS), starting from Term 2 Week 1 for the 2024 cohort.</p></li></ul><p><strong>Note:&nbsp;MEP students will attend lessons weekly at </strong>Anglo-Chinese School (Independent) (ACS (I)) Thursday, 3:30pm to 5:30pm or Dunman High School (DHS) on Wednesday, 3:30pm to :530pm<strong>.</strong></p><p>Thank you.</p><p><a href="https://www.moe.gov.sg/education-in-sg/our-programmes/mep-sec/how-to-join" rel="noopener noreferrer nofollow" target="_blank">How to join</a></p><hr><p><strong>Art Elective Programme (AEP)</strong></p><p>Dear Parents/Guardians,</p><p>&nbsp;Students wish to take up the programme at the <strong>Art Elective Programme (AEP) </strong>Centre, may apply online to undergo a centralised selection exercise.</p><p>The secondary-level AEP is a 4-year programme designed for artistically inclined students. The AEP curriculum aims to develop students as practitioners, scholars, advocates and leaders in art and the arts.</p><p>AEP students can expect:</p><ul data-tight="true" class="tight"><li><p>An extended and balanced art curriculum comprising studio practice and art criticism components.</p></li><li><p>To explore and engage with a range of materials, media and creative processes.</p></li><li><p>Access to specialised studio facilities, equipment and resources.</p></li><li><p>Learning experiences including workshops, exhibition showcases and community projects.</p></li><li><p>Opportunities to learn from arts industry professionals, and higher education students and staff.</p></li><li><p>Higher Art syllabus to be offered at GCE O-Level.</p></li></ul><p>Interested students are encouraged to seek admission into AEP centres that would cater to their abilities and interests as follow;</p><p>The AEP Centre application window:</p><ul data-tight="true" class="tight"><li><p>Opens to Secondary 1 applicants from Tues, 2 to Mon,15 Jan 2024.</p></li><li><p>Phase One, online application and submission of students’s e-portfolio</p></li><li><p>Phase Two, Tues, 13 Feb to Fri, 23 Feb 2024, interview for shortlisted applicants.</p></li><li><p>Selection exercise will be completed by 4 March 2024.</p></li><li><p>Successful applicants will start the programme at the AEP Centre in Term 2, week 1, 18 March 2024.</p></li></ul><p><strong>Note:&nbsp;AEP students will attend lessons weekly at NJC on Tuesday 3-6 pm.</strong></p><p>Thank you.</p><p><a href="https://www.moe.gov.sg/education-in-sg/our-programmes/aep-sec/how-to-join" rel="noopener noreferrer nofollow" target="_blank">How to join</a></p><hr><p>For more information please refer to MOE websites for the Music and Art Elective Programme in our school</p><p><a href="https://www.moe.gov.sg/education-in-sg/our-programmes/mep-sec" rel="noopener noreferrer nofollow" target="_blank">https://www.moe.gov.sg/education-in-sg/our-programmes/mep-sec</a></p><p><a href="https://www.moe.gov.sg/education-in-sg/our-programmes/aep-sec" rel="noopener noreferrer nofollow" target="_blank">https://www.moe.gov.sg/education-in-sg/our-programmes/aep-sec</a></p>